Guide for monitoring tests run by CI - final push (#5449)
kubernetes/community: contributors/devel/sig-testing/monitoring.md

# Monitoring Kubernetes Health

**Table of Contents**

> - [Monitoring Kubernetes Health](#monitoring-kubernetes-health)

Reviewer: nit: would it make sense to drop this so we can un-indent everything else?

Author: I don't get what you're saying here, can you please elaborate? 
Do you mean dropping the TOC altogether?

Author: I've updated the TOC. Pls review.

different teams to monitor and understand how their areas are doing.

E2E jobs are in turn made up of test stages (e.g., bootstrapping a Kubernetes
cluster, tearing down a Kubernetes cluster) and e2e tests are organized
hierarchically per Component and Subcategory within that component. (e.g., the
[Kubectl
client](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/e2e/kubectl/kubectl.go#L229)
component has tests that describe the expected behavior of [Kubectl
logs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/e2e/kubectl/kubectl.go#L1389)
One such test is [should be able to retrieve and filter
logs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/test/e2e/kubectl/kubectl.go#L1412)).

We highly encourage SIGs to periodically monitor the dashboards related to the
sub-projects that they own. If you see that a job or test has been failing,
please raise an issue with the corresponding SIG in either their mailing list or
in Slack.

Help maintaining tests is always needed throughout the project:
the following contributions are always welcome
 - [Triage Flaky Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+kind%2Fflake)

>  - [Fix Flaky Test](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+kind%2Fflake+-label%3Aneeds-triage+)

Author: Nice catch, I made this consistent by taking on your feedback.

 
**Note**: It is important that all SIGs periodically monitor their jobs and
tests.

Furthermore, if jobs or tests are failing or flaking, then pull requests will

> take a lot longer to be merged.

Reviewer: We've got some verbiage to that effect here if you want to link for more info: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-testing/flaky-tests.md#flaky-tests

### What dashboards should I monitor?

This depends on what areas of Kubernetes you want to contribute to. You should
monitor the dashboards owned by the SIG you are working with.

> Additionally, you should check:

Author: That is an assumption that is being made in this doc and you you are correct to say that it has not been stated. Though I think it might be better to state this up top.

> Additionally, you should check:

Author: I added an Overview up top to add the "changes made to Kubernetes" context

* https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-blocking 
* https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-informing

since these jobs run tests that are used by SIG Release to determine the overall
quality of Kubernetes and whether or not the commit on master can be considered
suitable for release. Failing tests on a job in sig-release-master-blocking
block a release from taking place.

Also, make sure to periodically check on the "blocking" and "informing"
dashboards for past releases. See https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release

---

> ## What do I do when I see a TestGrid alert?

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it makes sense in this doc, but here's something I do, and see others do, which might be just tribal vs. documented knowledge.

If a test fails on my PR, and it's clearly not related to the code I wrote, I try to find any open issues that appear related (have the name of the test in them, describe a similar error, etc.).  I'll link that in the comment I use to retrigger jobs, either calling the job out specifically:
```
./test pull-kubernetes-foo
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/foo
```
or even if just spamming retest
```
./retest
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/foo
```

I might even back-link from the issue to the PR that encountered it, to bump the issue's last updated date.

That way, the issue will accumulate links to other occurrences of the flake.  Lots of links = good signal this is actual pain contributors are regularly experiencing.

Author: Good stuff, I'll add this.

If you are part of a SIG's mailing list, occasionally you may see emails from
TestGrid reporting that a job or a test has recently failed. If you are browsing

> through TestGrid, you may also see jobs labeled as "flaky" (in purple) or as

Reviewer: It might cover it? 

I'm not a fan of the wording overall but I won't block on it.  For instance, I'm not sure "I happened to be browsing through" is relevant to a heading of "I see a TestGrid alert".  Maybe a separate section that describes browsing and when/how to act?

reply to the thread and mention that you are looking into it.

It is important to communicate to prevent duplicate work. First, check GitHub to
see if an issue has already been logged by checking the following ... 

 - [Flaky Tests that need to be
   triaged](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+kind%2Fflake)
 - [Triaged Flaky
   Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+kind%2Fflake+-label%3Aneeds-triage+)
 - [CI Signal board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/11) which
   segments logged issues by workflow
 
If an issue has already been opened for the test  you can add any new
findings that are not already documented in the issue.

For example, if a test is flaking intermittently and you have found another
incident where the test has failed that has not been recorded in the issue then
add the new information to the existing issue.

You can:

 - add a link to the Prow job where the latest test failure has occurred. 
 - note the error message
  
New evidence is especially useful if the root cause of the problem with the test
has not yet been determined and the issue still has a *needs-triage* label.

> If the issue has not already been logged please open up an issue on Kubernetes,

Reviewer: My preference would be to explicitly mention kubernetes/kubernetes

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/new/choose, and choose the
appropriate issue template, [Failing Test ](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/new?assignees=&labels=kind%2Ffailing-test&template=failing-test.md) or [Flaking
Test](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/new?assignees=&labels=kind%2Fflake&template=flaking-test.md)

#### Filling out an issues
Both test issue templates are reasonably self explanatory so what follows here
are guidelines and tips on filling out the templates.

When logging a Flaking or Failing test please
 - use plain text when referring to test names, job names. Inconsistent
   formatting of names makes it harder to process issues via automation.
 - keep an eye out for test names that contain markdown parse-able formatting.
   If you are a test maintainer refrain from including markdown in strings that
   are used to name your tests, test components etc.
 

> #### Fill out the issue for a Flaking Test

Reviewer: There is overlap here with https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-testing/flaky-tests.md#github-issues-for-known-flakes, ultimately we should converge on one location for instructions on how to file an issue, and link to it.  I don't have strong opinions on whether that's this doc, the other doc, the issue template, or some other location.   But I have strong opinions that we avoid N different guides.

1. **Which jobs are flaking**

> The job is the tab in TestGrid that you are looking at.

Reviewer: Strongly agree.  The job is _not_ the name of the tab.  It is really important to distinguish the two, because you need the job name to:
- find job config in kubernetes/test-infra
- look at recent runs in https://prow.k8s.io
- look up failures in https://go.k8s.io/triage
- look up top flakes in http://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-metrics/flakes-latest.json

I really think a glossary or explainer up top is needed:
- job name: e.g. `ci-kubernetes-foo`, shows up in prow.k8s.io, is the name of the gcs bucket where results are stored, etc
- testgrid tab name: 'build', is a shortened and possibly non-unique name that is well understand given the context of the dashboard in which it lives

How to translate from one to the other? Quickest way as a human is to click on a cell to see results in prow.k8s.io's spyglass, it will list the job name up top

> The job is the tab in TestGrid that you are looking at.

Author: Should we report this as a User Ex1perience bug in TestGrid? 

What is the justification for having having the tab name be different from the job name? Seems needlessly confusing to me. 

Also Jorge called this UX pothole out towards the end of the doc.

<img src="./testgrid-images/testgrid-jobs.png" height="50%" width="40%">

The above example was taken from the SIG Release dashboard and we can see that
* `conformance-ga-only` https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-blocking#conformance-ga-only,
* `skew-cluster-latest-kubectl-stable1-gce` https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-blocking#skew-cluster-latest-kubectl-stable1-gce,
* `gci-gce-ingress` https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-blocking#gci-gce-ingress,
* `kind-master-parallel` https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-blocking#kind-master-parallel

are flaky 

2. **Which tests are flaking**

Let's grab an example from the SIG release dashboards and look at the
`node-kubelet-features-master` job in
https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-informing#node-kubelet-features-master.

> <img src="./testgrid-images/failed-tests.png" height="70%" width="100%">

Reviewer 2: I made a slightly annotated version of this image so that we don't have to keep repeating "the value above that" or "the value below that" and it's a little easier for the "Since when has it been failing" section. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13409103/106927840-8ed58f00-66e0-11eb-9bcf-4173295779d0.png)

Author: Very nice, thank you :) 
Will use this.

Here we see that at 16.07 EDT and 15:07 EDT the job
```
[k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector] [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [ubuntu]
```
Failed for Kubernetes commit `9af86e8db` (this value is a row below the time -
the value above it is the Prow job run ID).
The corresponding test-infra commit was `11cb57d36` (the value below the commit

> for Kubernetes).

Reviewer: Note: this is not a guaranteed column heading for all release-blocking jobs.  In fact, it might not be relevant at all when these jobs are migrated away from bootstrap (https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/issues/20650)

> At 15:07 EDT, the job

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At 15:07 EDT, the test
```

```
[k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector] [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [cos-stable2]
```

failed as well.

> If one or both of these jobs continue failing, or if they fail frequently

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If one or both of these tests continue failing, or if they fail frequently
```

Reviewer: What does "frequently enough" mean?

Author: Removing.

enough, we should open an issue and investigate.

3. **Since when has it been flaking**

This information you can get from the header of the TestGrid page showing you all the
tests.

Going from top to bottom, you will see:
* Time at which the job was started
* Prow job run ID
* Kubernetes commit that was tested

> * (Most often) test-infra commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (Optionally) test-infra commit
```

Author: Removed "Frequently enough"
Rewrote that list to use @thejoycekung 's red-number-annotated TestGrid diagram (Thanks again JK!)

If we do this for the above test failures in `node-kubelet-features-master`, we
will see the following

<img src="./testgrid-images/spyglass-summary.png" height="60%" width="100%">

Right away it will show you what tests failed.

Here we see that 2 tests failed (both related to the node problem detector) and
the `e2e.go: Node Tests` stage was marked as failed (because the node problem
detector tests failed).

You will often see "stages" (steps in an e2e job) as mixed with the tests
themselves. The stages tell you what was going on in the e2e job when an error
occurred.

If we click on the first test error, we will see logs that will (hopefully) help
us figure out why the test failed.

<img src="./testgrid-images/spyglass-result.png" height="60%" width="100%">

Further down the page you will see all the logs for the entire test run.
Please copy any information you think may be useful from here into the issue.

You can reference a specific line in the logs by click on the line number and 
then copying the url which will now include an anchor to the specific line.

5. **Anything else we need to know**

It is important to review the behavior of the flaking test across a range of jobs

> using https://go.k8s.io/triage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using https://go.k8s.io/triage.
```

We can use the Triage tool to see if a test we see failing in a given job has
been failing in others and to understand how jobs are behaving.

For example, we can see how the job we have been looking at has been behaving
recently.

There is one important detail we have to mention at this point, the job names
you see on TestGrid are often aliases.

For example, when we clicked on a test run for
[node-kubelet-features-master](https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-release-master-informing#node-kubelet-features-master),
at the top left corner of Spyglass the page tells us the real job name,

> `ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features` (notice the "ci-kubernetes-" prefix).

Reviewer 2: Ahhh, I see the comment I made about TestGrid tab names not being "real" job names has come up here. Not sure whether this should be moved further up to step 1?? but it requires the reader to know to click on the cells in TestGrid for Spyglass which we walk through in step 4?

Reviewer: Echoing what I said above, this should practically be at the top, under a linkable heading like "Glossary" or "Terminology" or something

Author: Or reported as a UX defect.

Author: TestGrid has been improved on this point. (I think thanks to work done by @spiffxp ! Thank you Aaron) So I'll update the screen shot and adjust the copy accordingly.

Author: I've added an svg version of the screen shot. SVG files render fine on github markdown 

I created the svg file using Inkscape (quirky UX but powerful and worth learning effort) 

Inkscape diagrams have layers. Screenshot from TG is in it's own layer. The annotations I added pointing out TG UI elements (commit sources, Prow Job numbers, Prow Job config and desc) are in a separate layer. 

This means that we can reuse those annotations in other screen shots and also will make the screen shot a little more maintainable when we pick up TestGrid improvements in the future.

> Then we can use this full job name in Triage
> 
> https://go.k8s.io/triage?pr=1&job=ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features
> At the time of this writing we saw the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we can use this full job name in Triage: https://go.k8s.io/triage?pr=1&job=ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features.

At the time of this writing we saw the following
```

<img src="./testgrid-images/triage.png" height="50%" width="100%">

**Note**: notice that you can also improve your query by filtering or excluding
results based on test name or failure text.

Sometimes, Triage will help you find patterns to figure out what's wrong.
In this instance, we can also see that this job has been failing rather
frequently (about 2 times per hour).

### Iterate

Once you have filled out the issue, please mention it in the appropriate mailing
list thread (if you see an email from TestGrid mentioning a job or test
failure) and share it with the appropriate SIG in the Kubernetes Slack.

Don't worry if you are not sure how to debug further or how to resolve the
issue! All issues are unique and require a bit of experience to figure out how
to work on them. For the time being, reach out to people in Slack or the mailing

> list.

Author: This is brilliant TYSM for bringing this to my attention. I will commit this work separately.

> list.

Author: I changed the links to make use of the reference style. 

Thanks again for this suggestion. Much appreciated.

---
title: "Monitoring Kubernetes Health"
weight: 14
description: |
  Guidelines for finding and reporting failing tests in Kubernetes.
---

## Monitoring Kubernetes Health

### Table of Contents

- [Monitoring the health of Kubernetes with TestGrid](#monitoring-the-health-of-kubernetes-with-testgrid)
- [What dashboards should I monitor?](#what-dashboards-should-i-monitor)
- [Test failures that block my Pull Request](#pr-test-failures)
- [What do I do when I see a TestGrid alert?](#what-do-i-do-when-i-see-a-testgrid-alert)
- [Communicate your findings](#communicate-your-findings)
- [Fill out the issue](#fill-out-the-issue)

> - [Iterate](#iterate)

Author: Done.

sub-projects that they own. If you see that a job or test has been failing,
please raise an issue with the corresponding SIG in either their mailing list or
in Slack.

In particular, we always welcome the following contributions:

- [Triage Flaky Tests]
- [Fix Flaky Tests]

**Note**: It is important that all SIGs periodically monitor their jobs and
tests. Furthermore, if jobs or tests are failing or flaking, then pull requests
will take a lot longer to be merged. For more information on how flaking tests
disrupt PR merging and how to eliminate them see [Flaky Tests]

### What dashboards should I monitor?

This depends on what areas of Kubernetes you want to contribute to. You should
monitor the dashboards owned by the SIG you are working with.

Additionally, you should check:

- [sig-release-master-blocking]
- [sig-release-master-informing]

since these jobs run tests that are used by SIG Release to determine the overall
quality of Kubernetes and whether or not the commit on master can be considered
suitable for release. Failing tests on a job in sig-release-master-blocking
block a release from taking place.

> If your contributions involve code for past releases of kubernetes (e.g.

Author: Done

When logging a Flaking or Failing test please:

- use plain text when referring to test names and job names. Inconsistent
  formatting of names makes it harder to process issues via automation.
- keep an eye out for test names that contain markdown parse-able formatting.

If you are a test maintainer, refrain from including markdown in strings that
are used to name your tests and test components.

#### Fill out the issue for a Flaking Test

1 **Which jobs are flaking**

The example below was taken from the SIG Release dashboard:

<img src="./testgrid-images/testgrid-jobs.png" height="50%" width="100%">

We can see that the following jobs were flaky at the time this screenshot was taken:

- [conformance-ga-only]
- [skew-cluster-latest-kubectl-stable1-gce]
- [gci-gce-ingress]
- [kind-master-parallel]

1. **Which tests are flaking**

Let's grab an example from the SIG release dashboards and look at the
`node-kubelet-features-master` job in sig-release-master-informing [node-kubelet-features-master].

<img src="./testgrid-images/failed-tests.png" height="70%" width="100%">

Here we see that at 16.07 EDT and 15:07 EDT the tests

```text

> [k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector]
> [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [ubuntu]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector] [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [ubuntu]
```
Putting it on 2 lines _really_ makes it look like 2 different tests

```

Failed for Kubernetes commit `9af86e8db` (3)
The corresponding test-infra commit was `11cb57d36`

At 15:07 EDT, the test

```text

> [k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector]
> [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [cos-stable2]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[k8s.io] NodeProblemDetector [NodeFeature:NodeProblemDetector] [k8s.io] SystemLogMonitor should generate node condition and events for corresponding errors [cos-stable2]
```
Same comment as before.

```

failed as well.

3. **Since when has it been flaking**

You can get the start time of a flake from the header of the TestGrid page
showing you all the tests. The red numbers in the screen shot above annotate the
grid headings.

They are:

> - 1 This row has the times each Prow job was started, each column on the grid
>   represents a single run of the Prow job
> - 2 This row is the Prow job run id number
> - 3 This is the kubernetes/kubernetes commit id that was tested
> - 4 Theses are the kubernetes/test-infra commit ids that were used to build and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 1: The starting times for each Prow job; each column on the grid
  represents a single run of the Prow job.
- 2: The Prow job run id number.
- 3: The `kubernetes/kubernetes` commit id that was tested.
- 4: These are most commonly the `kubernetes/test-infra` commit ids that were used to build and
```

run the Prow Job; kubernetes/test-infra contains CI job definition yaml, builds
for container images used in CI on the Kubernetes project, and also code that
implements a lot of the components used to deliver CI, such as Prow, SpyGlass
and other components.

Click on a cell in the grid to take you to SpyGlass which displays the Prow job
results.

You can also find this data in Triage (see below).

4. **Reason for failure**

Logging an issue brings the flake or failure to the attention of the wider

> community, as the issue reporter you do not have to find the reason for failure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
community; as the issue reporter you do not have to find the reason for failure
```

right away (nor the solution). You can just log the error reported by the test
when the job was run.

> Click on the failed runs (the red cells in the grid)  to see the results in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click on the failed runs (the red cells in the grid) to see the results in 
```

SpyGlass.

For `node-kubelet-features-master`, we see the following:

> ![Spyglass Prow Job Results for node-kubelet-features-master`](./testgrid-images/spyglass-summary.png "Spyglass Prow Job results viewer")

Reviewer 2: nit: is there a reason why this image (and the next) are included with Markdown notation whereas the ones before used HTML? this should be consistent

Here we see that 2 tests failed (both related to the node problem detector) and
the `e2e.go: Node Tests` stage was marked as failed (because the node problem
detector tests failed).

You will often see "stages" (steps in an e2e job) as mixed with the tests
themselves. The stages tell you what was going on in the e2e job when an error
occurred.

If we click on the first test error, we will see logs that will (hopefully) help
us figure out why the test failed.
![Spyglass - Prow Job Results viewer](./testgrid-images/spyglass-result.png "Spyglass Prow Job results viewer")

Further down the page you will see all the logs for the entire test run.
Please copy any information you think may be useful from here into the issue.

> You can reference a specific line in the logs by click on the line number and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can reference a specific line in the logs by clicking on the line number and
```

then copying the URL which will now include an anchor to the specific line.

5. **Anything else we need to know**

It is important to review the behavior of the flaking test across a range of
jobs using [Triage].

We can use the Triage tool to see if a test we see failing in a given job has
been failing in others and to understand how jobs are behaving.

For example, we can see how the job we have been looking at has been behaving
recently.

> There is one important detail is that the job names you see on TestGrid are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One important detail is that the job names you see on TestGrid are
```

often aliases.

For example, when we clicked on a test run for [node-kubelet-features-master],

> the job name can be found at the top left corner of the Spyglass page
> `ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features` (notice the "ci-kubernetes-" prefix).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the job name `ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features` can be found at the top left corner of the Spyglass page (notice the "ci-kubernetes-" prefix).
```

Then we can run a query on Triage using [ci-kubernetes-node-kubelet-features in

> the job field] Note the Triage query can be bookmarked and can be used as a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the job field]. Note that the Triage query can be bookmarked and can be used as a
```

deep link for use in issues.

At the time of this writing we saw the following:

<img src="./testgrid-images/triage.png" height="50%" width="100%">

> **Note**: notice that you can also improve your query by filtering or excluding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: You can also improve your query by filtering or excluding
```
